## About

### Title

Rapid assessment plot pictures

### Creator

Michael Reuss, Kilian Hochholzer

### Date

Michael Reuss - Start sometime in 2022, End sometime in 2023
Kilian Hochholzer - Start 01.03.2024

### Description

This project trains different pre trained DNN models for classification of pictures take by a GoPro on recently disturbed forest sites.
Goal is to be able to use the data generated by the DNNs to predict the development of a picture. So whether it will develop towards a reference state or into a structural or compositionally different state.
Two types of pictures are used, pictures of the ground, were the groundcover is interested and pictures of the surroundings of a plot (4 pictures per plot), where categories of complexity are interested.

#### DNN creation and use

For the creation and use of DNNs a Anaconda environment with Python 3.11 is used. The detailed dependencies are found in rra_plot.yml.
There are a number of Pythons files that are used in this process:

- model_zoo.py
- npy_to_csv.py
- predict.py
- preprocess.py
- one_fold_wrapper.py
- post_train_predicto_script.py
- train_one_fold.py

3 bash scripts are used to process training, predictions and post processing for all models:
- 1_train_all_models.sh
- 2_run_predictions.sh
- 3_post_train.sh

The raw training data is found in the ./OG_data directory.
The created/trained models are found in ./output directory.
The initial analysis, regarding which model is best according to different metrics is found in each models output directory.

#### Analysing picture data + working towards prediction of post disturbance development

This step is done in R and all the scripts are found in the ./R directory.

#### Data

A variety of data is used, normaly they are stored in .csv files, but outputs of the DNNs are initially in a binary .npy format. A part of the AI_Workflow.ipynb file is dedicatet to the topic of making these binary file formats more easily assessible.


### Subject

Post-disturbance development, DNN, Multi-label image classification

### Relation

FutureForest - This work was funded by the future forest project.
Rapid assessment - The pictures and field data used in this analysis were collected during this project.

### Coverage

EDFM, Freising